# UltraSonic-Radar-System-
Radar is an object detection system which uses radio waves to determine the range, altitude, direction, or speed of objects. It can be used to detect aircraft, ships, spacecraft, guided missiles, motor vehicles, weather formations, and terrain. The radar dish or antenna transmits pulses of radio waves or micro waves which bounce off any object in their path. The object returns a tiny part of the wave's energy to a dish or antenna which is usually located at the same site as the transmitter. The modern uses of radar are highly diverse, including air traffic control, radar astronomy, air-defense systems, antimissile systems ;marine radar start locate landmarks and other ships; aircraft anti-collision systems; ocean surveillance systems, outer space surveillance and rendezvous systems; meteorological precipitation monitoring; altimetry and flight control systems; guided missile target locating systems; and ground-penetrating radar for geological observations. High tech radar systems are associated with digital signal processing and are capable of extracting useful information from very high noise levels. The Arduino based project requires a ultrasonic sensor, the sensor released the waves which we want to measure the distance of a object. The microcontrollers of the Arduino board can be programmed using C and C++ languages. When a code is written in Arduino UNO IDE software and connected to the board through a USB cable, Arduino boards have lot of applications in the present day scenario, so we have decided to do a small project on them.
